Teamwork Statement 

Part One: Collective Goals 

Our team, Team Rocket, aims to deliver an efficient, effective, and simple to use program. The overall goal is to achieve a project that is not just worth a grade, but a quality product that demonstrates 
our skills as individuals and a team. Developing PlayVault Curator will increase our skills as individual programmers and as teammates. PlayVault Curator as a project will teach us the values of software 
development in a safe, team environment where we can facilitate each other’s growth. By growing together, we will deliver a product that reflects our problem-solving abilities and innovations. We will ensure 
that PlayVault Curator is a polished, user-friendly, and functional application. 

 

Part Two: Project Coordination/Task Distribution 

The team will be using Discord for communication of ideas, code assistance and general zoom meetings when not meeting in person. We are committed to meeting in person once a week and online at least once a week. 
Each member is expected to put in as many hours as it will take to complete assigned task by sprint deadlines, being considerate of each member’s outside obligations. If tasks are reported to be completed too quickly 
or taking a while, we will redistribute workload to help other members who are struggling. The actual project will be shared and updated through GitHub with changes to the project commented in both code and updates comments 
built into the hub itself. Any updates to task schedule and task distribution will be officially documented and posted in GitHub so no one will be unsure of what their role is and will be held accountable for meeting sprint requirements.  
We will assign tasks based on programmer strengths and interests. Roles could possibly change and collaborate with other roles due to possible risks of underestimated workload, missed deadlines for sprints, and features 
that may be removed or added to our project. This is dependent on feasibility of features and extra time after development of main features and functionality. These tasks and sprints will be managed using the project managing app, 
Jira, which will make planning clear and concise. It will also allow for easier adaptability when we run into risks listed previously. 
  

Part Three: Mutual Accountability 
 
We will hold each other accountable to ensure we do well over the course of the semester. When it comes to decision making, we will try to always come together to talk about the big ones that can alter the plan or direction of the project. 
Before deciding on something we want to do with our project, we will always go over the risks and figure out a contingency ahead of time or find another way of executing an idea so that in the case where something fails, we know how to deal with it. 
It does not have to be fully fleshed out because it would be tough to spend a lot of time working on how to get both the initial plan and back up going but at least have something to save it, so we do not have to scrap the idea. However, if the 
decision is something minor, we shall have the free will to act on it if it seems logical and at some point, it is made known to the group. As mentioned in Part 2, we will put in what we need to each week depending on schedules, but we will make 
sure to meet at least once a week before lecture to work or discuss anything, and twice a week on virtually on discord. We want to make communication very important amongst each other and to be honest when we need help or if a given task gets
out of hand. A big risk is not having enough time to complete everything we want to do so we will adjust our plan as needed and time put in each week depending on the progress we make. This will ensure that we will be satisfied with our final 
product whether we have more time than needed or just enough.  
 
 
 
